## Coprocessor 0
4 registers required.

### SR (Status Register)
|  |  IM |  | EXL | IE | 
|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|
|  |15-10|  |  1  |  0 |

- hardware: set *EXL* bit when enter kernel mode and reset it when return to user mode.
- software: read/write are both permitted.

#### IM (Interrupt Mask)
- defining which interrupt sources, when active, will be allowed to cause an exception.
- generated by signals from **outside the CPU core**(the other two are the softwarewritable interrupt bits in the Cause register, which are ignored at this lab).
- 1: interruptible for corresponding bit.

#### EXL (Exception Level)
- Set by any exception, this forces kernel mode and disables interrupts; the intention is to keep *EXL* on long enough for software to decide what the new CPU privilege level and interrupt mask are to be.
- 1: kernel mode, no interrupts would be handled.

#### IE (Interrupt Enable)
- Global interrupt enable: Note that *EXL* inhibit all interrupts.
- 1: interruptible.
  

### Cause
| BD |  |  IP   | | ExcCode |  | 
|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|
| 31 |  | 15-10 | |   6-2   |  |

- hardware: take care of all bits.
- software: read only.

#### BD (Branch Delay)
- EPC is committed to being the address to which control should return after an exception.
- *BD* is set whenever an exception occurs on an instruction in a **delay slot** and EPC points to the branch.
- **EPC doesn't always points to the victim!!!**

#### IP (Interrupt Pending)
- Shows you the interrupts that want to happen.

#### ExcCode (Exception Code)
- Shows you what kind of exception happened, as detaild in Specification.md.


### EPC (Exception Program Counter)
- hardware: append `nop`, store address, etc.
- software: read/write are both permitted.
  
It's just a register that holds **the address of the return point for this exception**.
- if *BD* is set, EPC points to the previous (branch) instruction.    


### PrID
 Just for fun. :)

- hardware: take care of all bits.
- software: read only.